FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE CONFLICT BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS CONTINUES TO ESCALATE.
LAST NIGHT ISRAELI COMMANDOS
CONDUCTED A RAID IN NORTHERN GAZA
AND TODAY DURING A CABINET
MEETING PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU APPEALED FOR SUPPORT
FOR WHAT HE SAID COULD PROVE TO
BE AN EXTENDED MILITARY
OPERATION.
Translator: WE DON'T KNOW WHEN
THIS OPERATION WILL BE OVER.
IT MAY TAKE A LONG TIME AND WE
NEED YOUR SUPPORT AND ALSO YOUR
DISCIPLINE.
FOR THE LATEST WE ARE JOINED
ONCE AGAIN TONIGHT VIA SKYPE FROM
JERUSALEM BY JOSEF FEDERMAN.
YOUR STORY TODAY WAS ABOUT THE
PEOPLE FLEEING GAZA.
Reporter: YES.
OVERNIGHT WARNING LEAFLETS WERE
DROPPED OUT FROM THE SKY
TELLING PEOPLE IN THE NORTHERN
GAZA STRIP TO CLEAR OUT.
ISRAEL IS PLANNING HEAVY
BOMBARDMENT.
WE'VE SEEN A FEW AIRSTRIKES
ALREADY.
IN THE MEANTIME SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN 15 AND 20,000 RESIDENTS
OF
THAT AREA HAVE CLEARED OUT ON
THEIR WAY TO SHELTERS AND U.N.
SCHOOLS IN SAFER AREAS OF GAZA.
WE HEARD ABOUT THE COMMANDO RAID
OPERATION INSIDE GAZA,
BUT WE'D ALSO HEARD THERE WAS A
POLICE CHIEF'S HOUSE THAT WAS
BOMBED.
Reporter: YES.
THESE WERE TWO SEPARATE
INCIDENTS.
THE COMMANDO RAID TOOK PLACE
OVERNIGHT.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME THAT ISRAEL
HAS SENT GROUND FORCES INTO
GAZA.
IT WAS A VERY BRIEF PINPOINT-
TYPE OPERATION.
THEY WENT AFTER OR THEY SAY THEY
WENT AFTER A ROCKET LAUNCHING
SITE THAT COULDN'T BE REACHED
THROUGH AERIAL ATTACKS.
SO THEY SENT IN A SMALL TEAM OF
NAVAL COMMANDOS.
THEY WERE IN AND OUT.
THERE WAS SOME LIGHT INJURIES
ACTUALLY ON THE ISRAELI SIDE.
AS FOR THE POLICE CHIEF THAT WAS
NEAR STRIKE LAST NIGHT,
THIS WAS CONSIDERED A SENIOR
TARGET BY ISRAEL.
HE WAS THE HAMAS POLICE CHIEF OF
GAZA.
THE AIRSTRIKE HIT THE HOME WHERE
HE WAS STAYING.
17 MEMBERS OF THE MAN'S FAMILY
WAS KILLED,
BUT THE POLICE CHIEF IS STILL
ALIVE.
WHAT ABOUT ON THE DIPLOMATIC
FRONT OF, ANY NEWS, ANY PROGRESS?
--FRONT, ANY NEWS, ANY PROGRESS?
Reporter: THERE SEEMS TO BE A
LOT OF BEHIND THE SCENES
MOVEMENT.
IT'S HARD TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS
GOING ON.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY IS
IN VIENNA MEETING WITH HIS
COUNTERPARTS,
CALLED PRIME MINISTER SEPARATE
NETANYAHU -- PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU TODAY.
EGYPT PUT OUT A STATEMENT.
THEY'RE IN TOUCH WITH THE U.N.
SECRETARY GENERAL.
OTHER PLAYERS RANGING FROM
QATAR, TURKEY, FRANCE, TUNISIA,
THEY'RE ALL INVOLVED.
IT'S HARD TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
EXACTLY IS GOING ON.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE INVOLVED.
JOSEF FEDERMAN OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS, THANKS SO MUCH.
TURNING NOW TO UKRAINE WHERE
TODAY IN THE EASTERN CITY TODAY
GOVERNMENT TROOPS -- TODAY
GOVERNMENT TROOPS ROUTED THE
REBELS.
IN A SEPARATE INCIDENT TODAY TWO
HOMES INSIDE RUSSIA WERE
REPORTEDLY HIT BY SHELLS FIRED
ACROSS THE BORDER IN UKRAINE.
ONE RUSSIAN MAN WAS KILLED AND
TWO OTHER RUSSIANS WERE WOUNDED.
THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY
BLAMED THE UKRAINIAN ARMY AND
WARNED THAT THE EVENT COULD LEAD
TO WHAT IT CALLED
IRREVERSIBLE CONSEQUENCES.
IN IRAQ TODAY LAWMAKERS ONCE
AGAIN FAIL TO REACH AN AGREEMENT
ON A DEAL THAT WOULD LEAD TO THE
CREATION OF A NEW GOVERNMENT.
THEY WILL MEET AGAIN TUESDAY TO
TRY TO FILL THE POSTS OF PRIME
MINISTER, PRESIDENT AND
PARLIAMENTARY SPEAKER.
THE UNITED NATIONS WARNED OF
CHAOS IF THE POLITICAL IMPASSE IS
NOT BROKEN SOON.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON IRAQ LATER IN
THE BROADCAST.
IN VIENNA TODAY SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY MET WITH THE
FOREIGN MINISTER OF GERMANY AS
THEY AND OTHER DIPLOMATS GATHER
FOR ANOTHER ROUND OF TALKS ABOUT
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
BOTH WESTERN AND IRANIAN
OFFICIALS SAY MAJOR DISPUTES
REMAIN
TO BE RESOLVED.
DAVID SANGER IS COVERING THE
STORY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES AND
JOINS US NOW VIA SKYPE.
SO WHAT ABOUT THE INTERIM
AGREEMENT WE REACHED LAST FALL?
WHAT DID THAT BUY US?
Reporter: WHAT IT BOUGHT US WAS
SOME TIME AND REDUCED THE
THREAT IRAN COULD COMPLETE A
WEAPON.
THE IRANIANS QUIT USING THE FUEL
THAT IS CLOSE TO BOMB GRADE
FUEL.
SO THE UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEANS CLAIM THEY'VE ALREADY
ACCOMPLISHED A FAIR BIT EVEN IF
IT WAS TEMPORARY.
THAT AGREEMENT CALLED FOR A
FINAL AGREEMENT TO BE PUT
TOGETHER
IN SIX MONTHS WITH A POSSIBLE
EXTENSION UP TO ANOTHER SIX
MONTHS.
THEY'RE RUNNING INTO THE
DEADLINE FOR THE FIRST SIX MONTHS
BY
NEXT SUNDAY.
WHAT ABOUT INSPECTIONS THAT HAVE
OCCURRED DURING THIS TIME?
Reporter: THE IRANIANS HAVE BEEN
VERY GOOD ABOUT LETTING THE
INSPECTORS IN,
BUT FOR INSPECTIONS TO WORK FOR
A MUCH BROADER PERMIT
AGREEMENT THEY WOULD HAVE TO BE
FAR, FAR BROADER.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO ALLOW THE
INSPECTORS TO GO VIRTUALLY ANY
PLACE IN THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S ONE OF THE MOST VITAL
ISSUES BECAUSE IRAN HAS A HISTORY
OF HIDING FACILITIES.
THIS COMES IN THE WAKE OF
AYATOLLAH HOMENI SAYING HE WANTS
10 TIMES THE AMOUNT OF NUCLEAR
POWER IN IRAN GOING FORWARD.
Reporter: WHAT HE SAID WAS HE
WANTS 10 TIMES THE AMOUNT OF
NUCLEAR FUEL PRODUCED FOR FUTURE
REACTORS,
BUT REMEMBER THEY DON'T HAVE
THOSE REACTORS BUILT RIGHT NOW
AND YOU KNOW HOW LONG IT TAKES
TO BUILD THE REACTORS IN THE
UNITED STATES UNDER IDEAL
CONDITIONS.
THE IRANIANS HAVE NEVER REALLY
DONE THIS BEFORE EXCEPT FOR ONE
RUSSIAN REACTOR.
THEY GET THEIR FUEL FROM RUSSIA.
SO THE QUESTION WAS, WAS HE
LAYING OUT A LONG TERM GOAL THAT
REALLY WON'T GET IN THE WAY OF
THIS OR INSTEAD WAS HE
BEGINNING TO DESCRIBE A SET OF
NEEDS THAT RUNS COMPLETELY
CONTRARY TO WHAT IRAN WOULD HAVE
TO DO IF IT WAS TO REACH AN
AGREEMENT WITH THE WEST?
THE WEST, OF COURSE,
WANTS TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT THAT
IRAN PRODUCES NOW,
NOT INCREASE IT BY 10-FOLD.
ARE THERE ANY CONSEQUENCES TO
MISSING THIS JULY 20th DEADLINE?
Reporter: NOT MANY.
INITIALLY ISRAEL WAS QUITE
CONCERNED THAT IRAN WOULD BE ABLE
TO GET FAR MORE SANCTIONS RELIEF
THAN THE UNITED STATES AGREED
TO.
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
SO THE PRESSURE ON THE U.S.
TO CONCLUDE THE AGREEMENT IF
IT'S NOT EXACTLY WHAT THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR BY NEXT SUNDAY IS
PRETTY LOW.
DAVID SANGER OF THE NEW YORK
TIMES, THANKS SO MUCH.
Reporter: THANK YOU.
BACK IN THE U.S.
TEXAS GOVERNOR RICK PERRY TODAY
CALLED ON PRESIDENT OBAMA TO
DEPLOY THE NATIONAL GUARD ALONG
THE U.S.
/MEXICO BORDER TO STOP THE SURGE
OF MINORS CROSSING INTO THE
UNITED STATES ILLEGALLY.
THEY NEED TO BE RIGHT ON THE
RIVER.
THEY NEED TO BE THERE AS A SHOW
OF FORCE BECAUSE THAT'S THE
MESSAGE THAT GETS SENT BACK VERY
QUICKLY TO CENTRAL AMERICA.
MORE THAN 50,000 MINORS HAVE
MADE THE CROSSING SINCE LAST
FALL.
THE PRESIDENT RECENTLY ASKED
CONGRESS FOR $3.
7 BILLION TO ADDRESS THE
PROBLEM.
A MEDICAL NO.
,
NEW RESEARCH BEING PRESENTED AT
AN INTERNATIONAL GATHERING OF
--NOTE,
NEW RESEARCH BEING PRESENTED AT
AN INTERNATIONAL GATHERING OF
ALZHEIMER'S EXPERTS,
ONE A NONINVASIVE EYE EXAM AND A
COMMON SCRATCH AND SNIFF TEST
COULD HELP IDENTIFY THE ONSET OF
THE DISEASE.
ALZHEIMER IS USUALLY IDENTIFIED
THROUGH COSTLY SPINAL TAPS AND
BRAIN IMAGING.
AN ESTIMATED 5 MILLION AMERICANS
NOW LIVE WITH THE DISEASE.
CONDUCTOR LORIN MAAZEL WHO
CONDUCTED THE VIENNA STATE OPERA
AND PHILHARMONIC HAS DIED.
HE WAS 84 YEARS OLD,
A CHILD PRODIGY SAID TO HAVE
CONDUCTED WHEN HE WAS 9.
OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST IAN THORP
REVEALED TODAY THAT HE WAS GAY
IN A TELEVISION INTERVIEW.
THE 31-YEAR-OLD AUSTRALIAN
SWIMMER SAID HE HAD TIRED OF WHAT
HE CALLED THE BIG LIE IN HIS
LIFE,
A LIE HE SAID THAT HAD
CONTRIBUTED TO DEPRESSION AND
DRINKING.
THORP WON FIVE GOLD MEDALS.
IN VIRGINIA TODAY AN UNMANNED
131-FOOT TALL ROCKET CARRYING A
CARGO SHIP SUCCESSFULLY LAUNCHED
INTO SPACE.
THE SHIP IS EXPECTED TO DOG WITH
THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE
STATION WEDNESDAY MORNING --
DOCK WITH THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE
STATION WEDNESDAY MORNING
DELIVERING FOOD AND SCIENCE
PROJECTS
TO THE ASTRONAUTS ON BOARD.
NOW MORE ABOUT THE SITUATION IN
IRAQ,
YESTERDAY I INTERVIEWED ANTHONY
CORDESMAN OF THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
I BEGAN BY ASKING HIM ABOUT THE
OFFERS OF MILITARY AID FROM
IRAN, THE UNITED STATES AND
RUSSIA.
THE PROBLEM RIGHT NOW IS THAT
MILITARY AID PROVIDING MORE
EQUIPMENT AND MORE WEAPONS CAN
HAVE A VERY LIMITED EFFECT.
THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF CLAIMS
BEING MADE ABOUT AIR POWER,
BUT THEY'RE REALLY ONLY FLYING A
HANDFUL OF EXCURSIONS A DAY.
MOST OF THE PEOPLE HAVE NO
ABILITY TO TARGET OR ASSESS THE
DAMAGE AND PROVIDING MORE
WEAPONS TO ANTHEM HAS BASICALLY A
POLITICAL STRUCTURE --AN ARMY
THAT HAS BASICALLY A POLITICAL
STRUCTURE TIED TO THE PRIME
MINISTER THAT'S DEEPLY CORRUPT,
OFTEN A HOLLOW FORCE WITH
OFFICERS THAT AREN'T DOING THEIR
JOB
OR SIMPLY AREN'T THERE, THE
PROBLEM IS NOT WEAPONS.
THE PROBLEM ISN'T SUPPLY.
THERE'S VERY LITTLE THAT OUTSIDE
ADVISORS CAN REALLY DO.
TO THE EXTENT THAT THE IRAQI
ARMY HAS IMPROVED,
IT BASICALLY IS IT HAS NOW
FALLEN BACK ON SOME OF THE MORE
EFFECTIVE UNITS.
IT HAS A FRIENDLY POPULATION IN
SHIITE AREAS AND IT HAS SHIITE
VOLUNTEERS,
BUT THAT DENT MAKE IT AN
EFFECTIVE FORCE -- DOESN'T MAKE
IT AN
EFFECTIVE FORCE OR ONE THAT CAN
DEFEAT THE ISLAMIC STATE IN
THE NORTH AND WEST.
WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF
DISPLACING THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP?
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP PRESENTS
A SERIOUS PROBLEM FOR ITSELF.
IT ISN'T SIMPLY AN IRAQ.
IT'S FIGHTING OTHER ISLAMIC
GROUPS IN SYRIA AT THE SAME TIME.
SO IT NEEDS TIME TO BUILD UP
CONTROL OVER THE AREAS IT'S TAKEN
IF IT CAN DO SO BECAUSE IT DOES
SAY STRONG RIVALS AND
CERTAINLY A LOT OF TRIBAL
RESISTANCE.
WHAT ABOUT THE IMPENDING REFUGEE
CRISIS INTO NEIGHBORING
COUNTRIES?
WELL, THERE ALREADY IS A REFUGEE
CRISIS RADIO.
YOU'VE SEEN AT LEAST 1 --
REFUGEE CRISIS.
YOU'VE SEEN AT LEAST 1 MILLION
PEOPLE MOVE OUT.
IT'S GONE INTO LEBANON, TURKEY,
JORDAN AND OTHER AREAS.
WE ALSO SEE TROOPS AMASSING
ALONG THE BORDERS OF NEIGHBORING
COUNTRIES.
IS THERE CONCERN IRAQ CANNOT
STAY TOGETHER AS A SINGLE COUNTRY
ANYMORE?
I THINK EVERYONE IS CONCERNED
IRAQ MAY NOT STAY TOGETHER AS A
SINGLE COUNTRY,
BUT THE MORE SERIOUS PROBLEM IS
THAT HAVING A SINGLE COUNTRY
WHERE YOU HAVE SECTARIAN AND
ETHNIC GROUPS THAT HATE EACH
OTHER,
THAT DRIVE PEOPLE WHO ARE IN THE
MIGHT BE OUT OF THEIR HOMES
OR KILL --MINORITY OUT OF THEIR
HOMES OR KILL THEM IS NOT A
FORM OF UNITY.
IT DOESN'T REALLY PROVIDE ANY
BASIS FOR STABILITY AND
DEVELOPMENT.
THERE ALSO IS THE FACT THIS IS
NOT ONE WAR.
IT'S DIRECTLY CONNECTED TO THE
SYRIAN CIVIL WAR AND AT LEAST
IN TERMS FOR THE ISLAMIST
EXTREMIST MOVEMENT,
YOU HAVE VOLUNTEERS COMING IN AS
EXTREMISTS FROM PLACES AS FAR
AWAY AS BRITAIN AND CHINA AND
THE UNITED STATES.
THAT'S REALLY WHY THE JORDANIAN
AND SAUDI FORCES AND TO A
LESSER EXTENT THE LEBANESE
FORCES AND THE NORTH OF LEBANON
AND
TURKISH FORCES HAVE BUILT UP ON
THE BORDER.
IT ISN'T TO TRY TO UNIFY THE
COUNTRY.
IT'S TO STOP THE FLOW OF
EXTREMISTS AND TERRORISTS AND ANY
EXPANSION OF EITHER THE ISLAMIC
STATE OR THE FIGHTING INTO
OTHER COUNTRIES.
ARE THESE COUNTRIES CONCERNED
THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP
COULD SPILL OVER INTO JORDAN OR
SAUDI ARABIA?
IT'S NOT JUST THE ISLAMIC STATE.
IT'S THE ISLAMISTS IN MANY OTHER
MOVEMENTS,
AT LEAST TWO OTHERS IN IRAQ,
SOMETHING LIKE EIGHT DIFFERENT
MOVEMENTS OF DIFFERENT SIZES IN
SYRIA AND THIS IS A KEY REASON
WHY COUNTRIES LIKE THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES AND SAUDI ARABIA
JUST CHANGED THEIR TERRORIST
LAWS BECAUSE THEY SEE THIS AS
VERY SERIOUS.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN COUNTERTERRORISM IN
EUROPE AND IN THE UNITED STATES,
YOU HAVE A WHOLE NEW FOCUS ON
WHAT HAPPENS TO THE VOLUNTEERS
THAT HAVE BEEN GOING INTO IRAQ
AND SYRIA WHEN THEY COME BACK.
THIS IS AN ISSUE VIRTUALLY
EVERYWHERE IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
THANKS SO MUCH.
MY PLEASURE.
TODAY ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER ALSO EXPRESSED ALARM ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITY OF WESTERNERS
TRAINED BY TERRORISTS IN SYRIA
AND IRAQ RETURNING HOME
UNDETECTED.
IS THIS A CLEAR AND PRESENT
DANGER?
I THINK IT IS.
IN SOME WAYS IT'S MORE
FRIGHTENING THAN ANYTHING
I THINK I'VE SEEN AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
THE GROWING DANGER TO THE PUBLIC
FROM THE THEFT OF METAL FROM
THINGS LIKE MANHOLE COVERS,
TELEPHONE LINES,
POWER LINES AND SUBSTATIONS.
THE ATTORNEYS GENERAL FROM
MISSISSIPPI, ARKANSAS,
TENNESSEE AND LOUISIANA MET
RECENTLY TO TRY TO DEVISE A
COORDINATED STRATEGY TO COPE
WITH THE PROBLEM WHICH IS
ACTUALLY NATIONAL IN SCOPE.
OHIO'S ANSWER IS TO REGULATE THE
SCRAPYARDS WHERE THE THIEVES
CASH IN.
NEWSHOUR'S SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
RICK CARR WENT THERE RECENTLY
AND FILED THIS REPORT.
Reporter: ANGELA DAY'S LANDLINE
KEPT GOING DEAD IN 2012.
NOT WORKING.
Reporter: SHE DIDN'T HAVE A CELL
PHONE TO USE BECAUSE CELL
COVERAGE IS SPOTTY IN THE
APPALACHIAN REGION OF OHIO WHERE
SHE
LIVES AND AT THE HOUSE WHERE SHE
WAS LIVING WITH HER DAUGHTER
AND HER PARENTS THERE'S NO CELL
SIGNAL AT ALL.
SO WHENEVER SHE HAD TO BE AWAY
FROM HOME SHE WORRIED,
ESPECIALLY ABOUT HER FATHER.
HE HAD A HEART CONDITION AND HE
HAD HAD SEVERAL OPEN HEART
SURGERIES.
HE HAD TRIPLE BYPASS SURGERY.
Reporter: A FEW DAYS AFTER
CHRISTMAS HE SAID HE WASN'T
FEELING
WELL.
HE CALLED OVER TO TALK TO THE
NURSE AND HE WAS HAVING PROBLEMS
WITH THE PHONE.
Reporter: FINALLY HE SAID HE
NEEDED AN AMBULANCE AFTER HIS
CONDITION DETERIORATED.
THE FAMILY CALLED 911,
BUT THE LINE WAS SO BAD THAT
THEY FINALLY GAVE UP AND DAY'S
BROTHER RUSHED THEIR FATHER TO
THE DOCTORS,
BUT IT WAS TOO LATE.
HE DIED THAT EVENING.
IT WAS REALLY FRUSTRATING
BECAUSE THE WHOLE WEEK AFTERWARDS
WE
COULDN'T EVEN CALL OUT TO PLAN
THE FUNERAL OR CALL TO TELL
PEOPLE THAT HE HAD PASSED.
I HAD TO USE THE PHONE AT MY
WORKPLACE TO USE THE PHONE TO
CALL THE FUNERAL.
Reporter: THIEVES WERE STEALING
TELEPHONE WIRES ALL OVER THE
COUNTY.
IT'S ONE OF THE POOREST IN OHIO
AND THE COPPER IN THE LINES
WAS VALUABLE.
THERE COULD BE HUNDREDS OF
DOLLARS WORTH IN THE CABLE STRUNG
BETWEEN TWO UTILITY POLES.
AT THE TIME THIEVES WERE
STEALING ALL KINDS OF METAL
THROUGHOUT OHIO,
PARTS FROM FARM EQUIPMENT AND
ELECTRICAL SUBSTATIONS,
MANHOLE COVERS, GRAVE MARKERS.
FOR FIVE YEARS RUNNING THE STATE
HAS LED THE NATION IN METAL
THEFTS.
FROM ONE CORNER OF OHIO TO
ANOTHER THIEVES HAVE PUT THE
PUBLIC
IN DANGER.
ACCORDING TO POLICE HERE IN
AKRON,
THERE WAS AN ACCIDENT ON THAT
INTERSTATE HIGHWAY BEHIND ME
BECAUSE OF AN ATTEMPT TO STEAL
COPPER WIRE FROM THE HIGH
TENSION LINES BEYOND IT.
THE WOULD BE THIEVES CLIMBED UP
AND CUT THE LINE SO IT DANGLED
UNDER THE INTERSTATE UNDER
THOUSANDS OF VOLTS OF TENSION.
WHEN AN SUV GOT TOO CLOSE,
THERE WAS A BRIGHT FLASH TO BLEW
OUT THE WINDSHIELD AND
KNOCKED THE DRIVER UNCONSCIOUS.
THE DRIVER SURVIVED, BUT THIEVES
THEMSELVES AREN'T SO LUCKY.
I'M STRUCK BY THE IDEA OF
SOMEONE CLIMBING UP A UTILITY
POLE
AND CARRYING SOMETHING LIKE THIS
DOWN.
THIS IS GOING TO BE CARRYING A
LOT OF JUICE.
IT'S A DANGEROUS CRIME TO
COMMIT.
LET ME BE VERY CLEAR ON THIS.
WE HAVE PEOPLE DYING REGULARLY
FOR THIS.
COMMANDER BOB MEEDER HAS DEALT
WITH METAL THEFT OVER TWO
DECADES AS A COLUMBUS COP.
METAL PRICES HAS COME DOWN,
BUT COPPER IS STILL TWICE AS
VALUABLE AS A DECADE AGO.
IN 2007 COLUMBUS BECAME THE
FIRST CITY IN THE STATE TO CRACK
DOWN ON METAL THEFT.
POLICE COULDN'T KEEP AN EYE ON
EVERY PIECE OF METAL THIEVES
MIGHT STEAL,
BUT THE CITY COULD MAKE IT
HARDER FOR THEM TO SELL IT.
WE KNOW IT'S NOT GOING TO GO TO
THE CENTER OF THE CITY AND PUT
A SIGN OUT AND SAY I HAVE SCRAP
METAL FOR SALE.
THERE'S ONE LOCATION IN THE
STATE OF OHIO AND THROUGHOUT THE
UNITED STATES TO GET MONEY FOR
IT AND THAT IS A SCRAPYARD.
COLUMBUS ENACTED LAWS WHERE
SCRAP DEALERS HAVE TO CHECK EVERY
CUSTOMER'S ID AGAINST AN ONLINE
DATABASE OF CONVICTED THIEVES
WHO MIGHT BE TRYING TO SELL WHAT
THEY'VE STOLEN.
DEALERS HAVE TO RECORD EVERY
DETAIL OF EVERY PURCHASE THEY
MAKE SO THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT CAN
INVESTIGATE THEFT.
COLUMBUS OFFICIALS SAY ANECDOTAL
EVIDENCE SUGGESTS THE RULES
HAVE CUT DOWN ON METAL THEFT.
OHIO LEGISLATORS USED THE CITY
ORDINANCE AS THE BASIS OF A NEW
STATE LAW.
OHIO SCRAP DEALER JOSH JOSEPH
SAID WHEN COLUMBUS CRACKED DOWN,
THIEVES WENT TO OUTSIDE THE CITY
LIMITS.
NOW THAT THE WHOLE STATE IS
CRACKING DOWN,
THEY'LL JUST GO ACROSS THE STATE
LINE.
FOR SOMEONE TO STEAL IT,
DRIVING ACROSS THE STATE AND
SELLING IT,
IS A REALLY EASY THING TO
HAPPEN.
THE UNIFORMITY OF THE LAW,
UNIFORMITY OF THE WAY IT IS
ENFORCED FROM AN INDUSTRY
PERSPECTIVE WE SEE AS PARAMOUNT
TO THE SUCCESS OF THE LAW.
JOSEPH HAS A LOT OF OTHER
CONCERNS ABOUT THE LAW.
FOR ONE THING,
HE WORRIES ABOUT WHAT THE COST
OF COMPLYING WITH IT WILL DO TO
FAMILY-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES IN
THE INDUSTRY.
IT'S ANYWHERE FROM PROBABLY 20
OR $30,000 UP TO HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS.
WE HAVE SPENT SIX FIGURES TO
MAINTAIN,
UPGRADE AND TRAIN OUR PEOPLE IN
ORDER TO BE COMPLIANT.
AND TRAINING MIGHT NOT BE ENOUGH
TO KEEP SOME EMPLOYEES HONEST.
HOW CAN YOU BE SURE THAT IF
SOMEBODY STEALS SAY A BUNCH OF
COPPER WIRE, BRINGS IT IN,
FLIPS ONE OF YOUR EMPLOYEES 100
BUCKS,
HOW DO YOU INSURE YOUR EMPLOYEE
IS NOT SUSCEPTIBLE TO THAT?
I WOULD SAY THAT OUR EMPLOYEES
ARE SUSCEPTIBLE TO THAT.
WE THINK WE'VE HAD SOME
INSTANCES OF THAT HAPPENING IN
THE
PAST.
HAVE YOU EVER HAD TO FIRE
ANYBODY?
WE HAVE.
THERE COULD ALSO BE CONSEQUENCES
TO THE ENVIRONMENT ACCORDING
TO SCRAP DEALERS.
THEY'RE IN THE RECYCLING
BUSINESS.
THE METAL THEY TAKE IN GETS
MELTED DOWN AND REACH USED.
THE LAW IN OHIO MAKES IT A CRIME
FOR SCRAP DEALERS TO BUY
CERTAIN ITEMS UNLESS SELLERS CAN
PROVE SOMETHING IS THEIRS TO
SELL, ELECTRICAL LINES, FOR
INSTANCE, AND TELEPHONE CABLES,
BUT THE LIST ALSO INCLUDES ITEMS
HOMEOWNERS MIGHT BRING IN AND
THAT COULD END UP IN A LEFT HAND
FILL IF A SCRAP DEALER
REFUSES IT TO STAY ON THE SAFE
SIDE OF THE LAW ACCORDING TO
ROBIN WEINER WHO RUNS THE TRADE
GROUP.
THE MEMBERS ASK FOR PROOF OF
OWNERSHIP AND THEY DON'T HAVE
THAT.
THEY WANT TO DO THE RIGHT THING
AND RECYCLE.
JOSH JOSEPH'S FAMILY HAS BEEN IN
THE SCRAP BUSINESS FOR FOUR
GENERATIONS AND DOESN'T LIKE HIS
BUSINESS BEING COMPARED TO A
PAWN SHOP AND HE'S NOT SURE HIS
INDUSTRY SHOULD HAVE TO BEAR
THE BURDEN OF CRACKING DOWN ON
METAL THIEVES.
THIEVES WILL KEEP STEALING METAL
ACCORDING TO ANGELA DAY AS
LONG AS IT'S VALUABLE.
A COUPLE MONTHS AFTER HER FATHER
DIED POLICE ARRESTED TWO MEN
WHO WERE CHARGED WITH STEALING
PHONE LINES INCLUDING THE ONE
THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS
SAY AFFECTED THE CALL TO 911
THE DAY HER FATHER DIED.
SHE'D KNOWN ONE OF THE MEN AS A
KID AND SHE UNDERSTANDS WHAT
MOTIVATED THE CRIMES.
GROWING UP HERE YOU REALIZE HOW
DESPERATE PEOPLE ARE AND HOW
MUCH IN NEED THIS AREA IS.
I MEAN THERE'S NOT A LOT OF
RESOURCES.
THEY'RE STILL GOING TO BE
STEALING THING.
THAT'S JUST A PART OF LIFE.
I DON'T CARE WHERE YOU LIVE IN
THE UNITED STATES.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THEFT IF
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE PEOPLE
DESPERATE, STEALING TO SURVIVE.
BOTH MEN ARE SERVING PRISON TERM
FOR STEALING THE TELEPHONE
LINES.
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE MARKET FOR
SCRAP METAL.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBC.ON.
-- VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
THIS IS NEWSHOUR PBS SUNDAY.
IN AN OPINION PIECE PUBLISHED
THIS WEEKEND IN THE OBSERVER
DESMOND TUTU SIGNALED HIS
SUPPORT FOR DIGNITY WHEN DYING.
RECENTLY THE FORMER ARCHBISHOP
OF CANTERBURY EMBRACED THE SAME
CAUSE.
Reporter: FOR 11 YEARS HE WAS
HEAD OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND AS
ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY LORD
CAREY HAS CHANGED HIS MIND TO
APPROVE LEGALIZING DEATH FOR THE
DYING.
HE SAID THE OLD PHILOSOPHICAL
CERTAINTIES COLLAPSED IN THE
FACE OF REALITY OF NEEDLESS
SUFFERING.
IN STRICTLY OBSERVING THE
SANCTITY OF LIFE THE CHURCH COULD
NOW ACTUALLY BE PROMOTING
ANGUISH AND PAIN,
THE VERY OPPOSITE OF A CHRISTIAN
MESSAGE OF HOPE.
LORD CAREY WAS DEEPLY MOVED
AFTER A SICK MAN WAS DENIED THE
LEGAL RIGHT TO DIE.
HIS WIDOW TODAY WELCOMED LORD
CAREY'S SWITCH.
THIS IS HUGELY SIGNIFICANT.
I THINK THE FACT THAT SOMEONE
WITH SUCH A PROMINENT POSITION
IN THE CHURCH SPOKE IN FAVOR IS
BRILLIANT.
IF HE'D KNOWN SOMEONE SO HIGH UP
IN THE CHURCH WAS BEGINNING
TO CHANGE THEIR MIND AND THE
OPINION WITHIN THE CHURCH WAS
CHANGING, I THINK THAT WOULD
HAVE PLEASED HIM A LOT.
Reporter: FOR THE CHURCH OF
ENGLAND,
LORD CAREY'S CHANGE OF POSITION
HAS FOUND SOME SUPPORT.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A HUGE GAME
CHANGER.
UP TILL NOW THERE'S BEEN A PARTY
LINE FROM THE CHRISTIANS
ABOUT THIS SUBJECT AND IT'S
CLEARLY SOMETHING THAT'S
EXORCISING THE WHOLE OF SOCIETY
AT THIS MOMENT.
UP TO 70% OF PEOPLE WANT A
CHANGE IN THE LAW.
Reporter: BUT THE CURRENT
ARCHBISHOP RESTATED THE CHURCH'S
POSITION OPPOSING ASSISTED
DYING.
SOME LATE NEWS BEFORE WE LEAVE,
THE ISRAELI ARMY SAYS TODAY
HAMAS HAS FIRED MORE THAN 900
ROCKETS FROM GAZA INTO ISRAEL
SINCE THE START OF THE CONFLICT
SIX DAYS AGO.
HAMAS SAYS AT LEAST 160
PALESTINIANS HAVE BEEN KILLED
DURING
ISRAELI BOMBING ATTACKS.
THOUSANDS OF PALESTINIANS FLED
THEIR HOMES FOR SAFETY IN U.N.
SHELTERS AFTER ISRAEL WARNS OF
ADDITIONAL ATTACKS.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE ON
NEWSHOUR TOMORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD NIGHT.